README.md, before:

# Awesome Programming Presentations

> List of programming presentations everyone should watch.

<br>

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/techgaun/awesome-programming-presentations.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/techgaun/awesome-programming-presentations)

Don't know where to start? ➔ [Start here](#fun-to-watch).

If you need some inspiration, [start with this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oioj24KQRvM) or listen to [this song](https://soundcloud.com/smixx/smixx-developers-feat-steve).

## Table of Contents

- [General](#general)
- [Programming Languages](#programming-languages)
  - [Bash](#bash)
  - [CSS](#css)
  - [Elixir](#elixir)
  - [Erlang](#erlang)
  - [Go](#go)
  - [JavaScript](#javascript)
  - [PHP](#php)
  - [Python](#python)
  - [Ruby](#ruby)
  - [Scala](#scala)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Paradigms and Principles](#paradigms-and-principles)
  - [CQRS and Event Sourcing](#cqrs-and-event-sourcing)
  - [Functional Programming](#functional-programming)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Computer Security](#computer-security)
- [Cryptocurrency](#cryptocurrency)
- [Database Systems](#database-systems)
- [Distributed Systems](#distributed-systems)
- [Microservices](#microservices)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
  - [Fun to Watch](#fun-to-watch)
  - [IDEs and Editors](#ides-and-editors)
  - [Version Control](#version-control)
- [Contribute](#contribute)
- [License](#license)

## General

- [A Conversation with Linus Torvalds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Efi9wa4Fwds)
- [Evolutionary Software Architectures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CglSFhwbI3s) - by _Neal Ford_
- [Growing a Language](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ahvzDzKdB0) by _Guy Steele_
- [How to Get a Job at the Big 4 - Amazon, Facebook, Google & Microsoft](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJZCUhxNCv8) by _Sean Lee_
- [I want you to contribute to open source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hwdeUG_gySI) by _Max Stoiber_
- [It's Dangerous to Go Alone: Battling the Invisible Monsters in Tech](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1i8ylq4j_EY) - by _Julie Pagano_
- [Linux Kernel Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vyenmLqJQjs) - by _Greg Kroah-Hartman_
- [Overkill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GWEEPt8VvmU) - by _Katrina Owen_
- [System We Love](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TPe6UXMDMGM)
- [Systems programming as a swiss army knife](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HfD9IMZ9rKY) - by _Julia Evans_
- [The Future of Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecIWPzGEbFc) - by _Bob Martin_
- [The Future of Programming](https://vimeo.com/71278954) - by _Bret Victor_
- [The Motivation for a Monolithic Codebase](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W71BTkUbdqE) - by _Rachel Potvin_
- [The Myth of the Genius Programmer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0SARbwvhupQ) - by _Brian Fitzpatrick & Ben Collins-Sussman_
- [Thinking Above the Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4Yp3j_jk8Q) - by _Leslie Lamport_
- [You can be a kernel hacker!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0IQlpFWTFbM) - by _Julia Evans_

## Programming Languages

### Bash

- [Introduction to Advanced Bash Usage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uqHjc7hlqd0) - by _James Pannacciulli_
- [The Functional Tao of Bash](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yD2ekOEP9sU) - by _Garrett Smith_

### CSS

- [3.14 Things I Didn't Know About CSS - CSSconf EU 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WjP7TEKB7Uo)
- [CSS for Software Engineers for CSS Developers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wFn5nel3j6w) - by _Harry Roberts_
- [CSS Performance Tooling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FEs2jgZBaQA) - by _Addy Osmani_
- [Refactoring CSS Without Losing Your Mind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvTryZjGyg8) - by _Harry Roberts_
- [Your CSS is a Mess](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4z_9F6nfS8) - by _Jonathan Snook_
- [Your Very Own Component Library](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zSYo7m5kGHQ) - by _Alex Sexton_

### Elixir

- [Building Umbrella Project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6NTmUQClHrU) - by _Wojtek Mach_
- [Debugging Techniques in Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pj6zAgvVt5w) - by _Erich Kist_
- [Dialyzer: Optimistic Type Checking for Erlang and Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JT0ECYZ9FaQ) - by _Jason Voegele_
- [Discovering Processes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_b6RTes83c) - by _Saša Jurić_
- [Don't Write Macros But Do Learn How They Work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bo48sQDb-hk) - by _Jesse Anderson_
- [Elixir by the Bellyful](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iswld-Rpi_g) - by _Bryan Hunter_
- [Elixir in Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8MGNw045AE) - by _Jay Hayes_
- [Elixir Native UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=77FW-jrCyCs) - by _Boyd Multerer_
- [Elixir Power Tracing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBmNDI9OFJk) - by _Gabi Zuniga_
- [GenStage in the Kitchen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M78r_PDlw2c) - by _Claudio Ortolina_
- [High availability with Elixir and Erlang](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ba3aCm3A0o8) - by _Saša Jurić_
- [Let's Get Functional With Elixir!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVrnoxNbOts) - by _Nate Taylor_
- [Metaprogramming Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Bjzml_Hpvk) - by _Chris McCord_
- [OOP in Elixir - Lightning Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5EtV2JUU0Z4) - by _Wojtek Mach_
- [Phoenix - Productive. Reliable. Fast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STO-uN0xHDQ) - by _Chris McCord_
- [Phoenix 1.3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tMO28ar0lW8) - by _Chris McCord_
- [Phoenix after 100000 lines](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blGJ_p4plbc) - by _Renan Ranelli_
- [Processing 2.7M Images with Elixir (vs Ruby)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoNRtWl4fZU) - by _David Padilla_
- [Profiling and Tracing for all with Xprof](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AAXtjPiXbWE) - by _Péter Gömöri_
- [QuickCheck for Elixir - Generate Tests Automatically](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nbpZRm9gl50) - by _Thomas Arts_
- [Securing Elixir Applications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0DuAse9tK8) - by _Bram Verburg_ (Applies to Erlang as well in general)
- [Solid Ground](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5SbWapbXhKo) - by _Saša Jurić_
- [Taking Elixir to the Metal with Rust](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lSLTwWqTbKQ) - by _Sonny Scroggin_
- [The Joy of Connecting Elixir to the Physical World](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVy7gRU_-P8) - by _Frank Hunleth_
- [Thinking In Ecto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQxopjai0CU) - by _Darin Wilson_
- [Writing an Editor in Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6lIVWVmuPao) - by _Ian Duggan_

### Erlang

- [26 years with Erlang or How I got my grey hairs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCwRGHj5jOE) - by _Joe Armstrong_
- [Erlang: Evolution](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=od6CfA8xEcM) - by _Robert Virding_
- [Erlang Performance Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncedupb-Rqw) - by _Michal Slaski_

### Go

- [7 common mistakes in Go and when to avoid them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29LLRKIL_TI) - by _Steve Francia_
- [Concurrency Is Not Parallelism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cN_DpYBzKso) - by _Rob Pike_
- [Crypto For Go Developers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2r_KMzXB74w) - by _George Tankersley_
- [Do not fear first class functions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5buaPyJ0XeQ) - by _Dave Cheney_
- [Go Proverbs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PAAkCSZUG1c) - by _Rob Pike_
- ["go test -race" Under the Hood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5erqWdlhQLA) - by _Kavya Joshi_
- [How to write your own Go tool](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oxc8B2fjDvY) - by _Fatih Arslan_
- [Inside the Map Implementation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tl7mi9QmLns) - by _Keith Randall_
- [Program your next server in Go](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5bYO60-qYOI) - by _Sameer Ajmani_
- [Self Deploying Go Applications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhmAyZNlECw) - by _Kelsey Hightower_
- [Simplicity is Complicated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rFejpH_tAHM) - by _Rob Pike_
- [Stupid Gopher Tricks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UECh7X07m6E) - by _Andrew Gerrand_
- [The Design of the Go Assembler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KINIAgRpkDA) - by _Rob Pike_
- [The Scandalous Story of the Dreadful Code Written by the Best of Us](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-wYLmsizBc0) - by _Katrina Owen_

### JavaScript

- [A Cartoon Intro to Fiber](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCuYPiUIONs) - by _Lin Clark_
- [A Cartoon Intro to WebAssembly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HktWin_LPf4) - by _Lin Clark_
- [Benchmarking Javascript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g0ek4vV7nEA) - by _Vyacheslav Egorov_
- [Hey Underscore, You're Doing It Wrong!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m3svKOdZijA) - by _Brian Lonsdorf_
- [How to Build a Compiler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tar4WgAfMr4) - by _James Kyle_
- [Immutable Data and React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I7IdS-PbEgI) - by _Lee Byron_
- [In The Loop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cCOL7MC4Pl0) - by _Jake Archibald_
- [Learning Functional Programming with JavaScript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-5obm1G_FY) by _Anjana Vakil_
- [Performance and benchmarking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=65-RbBwZQdU) - by _Vyacheslav Egorov_
- [Really. Javascript.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTWGoL1N-Kc) - by _Douglas Crockford_
- [RxJS + Redux + React = Amazing!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AslncyG8whg) - by _Jay Phelps_
- [The myth of the "Real JavaScript Developer"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xt5qpbiqw2g) - by _Brenna O'Brien_
- [V8, modern JavaScript, and beyond](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N1swY14jiKc) - by _Seth Thompson_
- [What the heck is the event loop anyway?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ) - by _Philip Roberts_

### PHP

- [PHP in 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYTKm2oUzAg) - by _Rasmus Lerdorf_

### Python

- [10 Tips for Pythonic Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_O23jIXsshs) - by _Michael Kennedy_
- [A tale of concurrency through creativity in Python: a deep dive into how gevent works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GunMToxbE0E) - by _Kavya Joshi_
- [Beyond PEP 8 - Best practices for beautiful intelligible code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf-BqAjZb8M) - by _Raymond Hettinger_
- [Builtin Superheroes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6VSAsKAj98) - by _David Beazley_
- [Crypto 101](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rmCGsCYJF8) - by _Laurens Van Houtven_
- [Decorators: A Powerful Weapon in your Python Arsenal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9oyr0mocZTg) - by _Colton Myers_
- [Fear and Awaiting in Async: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the Coroutine Dream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E-1Y4kSsAFc) - by _David Beazley_
- [Learn Python Through Public Data Hacking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RrPZza_vZ3w) - by _David Beazley_
- [Modern Dictionaries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p33CVV29OG8) - by _Raymond Hettinger_
- [Modules and Packages: Live and Let Die!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oTh1CXRaQ0) - by _David Beazley_
- [Python asyncio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZzfHjytDceU) - by _David Beazley_
- [Python Concurrency From the Ground Up](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCs5OvhV9S4) - by _David Beazley_
- [Statistics for Hackers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iq9DzN6mvYA) - by _Jake Vanderplas_
- [Transforming Code into Beautiful, Idiomatic Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSGv2VnC0go) - by _Raymond Hettinger_
- [Type Hints](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2wDvzy6Hgxg) - by _Guido van Rossum_
- [Understanding the Python GIL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Obt-vMVdM8s) - by _David Beazley_

### Ruby

- [Let's build a blockchain! — A mini-cryptocurrency in Ruby](https://youtu.be/3aJI1ABdjQk?t=1043) - by _Haseeb Qureshi_
- [Nothing is Something - RailsConf 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMPfEXIlTVE) by _Sandi Metz_

### Scala

- [Striving to Make Things Simple and Fast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K2NYwP90bNs) - by _Phil Bagwell_

### Artificial Intelligence

- [Large-Scale Deep Learning with TensorFlow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzoe2G5g-w4) - by _Jeff Dean_
- [Self-Driving Lessons from Comma AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxuU5L2MEII) - by _George Hotz_
- [TensorFlow and Deep Learning without a PhD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4alGiomYP4) - by _Martin Gorner_
- [TensorFlow and Deep Learning without a PhD, Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fTUwdXUFfI8) - by _Martin Gorner_

## Paradigms and Principles

### CQRS and Event Sourcing

- [CQRS and Event Sourcing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHGkaShoyNs) - by _Greg Young_

### Functional Programming

- [Controlling Time and Space: understanding the many formulations of FRP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Agu6jipKfYw) - by _Evan Czaplicki_
- [Functional Programming Patterns for Mere Mortals](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9QGWbGppis) - by _Daniel Chambers_
- [Railway Oriented Programming - error handling in functional languages](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8I19uA-wGY) - by _Scott Wlaschin_

### Cloud Computing

- [12-Factor Apps and the Hashistack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nosa5-xcATw) - by _Kelsey Hightower_
- [Achieving Rapid Response Times in Large Online Services](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-3Ahy7Fxsc) - by _Jeff Dean_
- [A Day in the Life of a Netflix Engineer - AWS re:Invent 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mL3zT1iIKw) - by _Dave Hahn_
- [Build user trust: running containers securely with Google Container Engine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cd4JU7qzYbE) - by _Alex Mohr_ and _Jessie Frazelle_
- [Building Software Systems At Google and Lessons Learned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=modXC5IWTJI) - by _Jeff Dean_
- [Cluster Management at Google with Borg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0W49z8hVn0k) - by _John Wilkes_
- [Container management and deployment: from development to production](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XL9CQobFB8I) - by _Kelsey Hightower_
- [Infrastructure as Code Might Literally Be Impossible](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLh_6Ievi7A) - by _Joe Damato_
- [Infrastructure as Code Might Literally Be Impossible Part Two](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nPGdN_OuU9U) - by _Joe Damato_
- [Scaling at GitHub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f7ecUqHxD7o) - by _Patrick Reynolds_
- [Scaling Redis at Twitter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rP9EKvWt0zo) - by _Yao Yu_
- [Scaling Up to Your First 10 Million Users](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vg5onp8TU6Q) - by _Joel Williams_

### Computer Security

- [Pwned By the owner What happens when you steal a hackers computer - Defcon 18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4oB28ksiIo)

### Cryptocurrency

- [Ethereum in 25 Minutes, Version MMXVII](https://youtu.be/mCzyDLanA7s) - by _Vitalik Buterina_

### Distributed Systems

- [Applying the Saga Pattern](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xDuwrtwYHu8) - by _Caitie McCaffrey_
- [Conflict Resolution for Eventual Consistency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yCcWpzY8dIA) - by _Martin Kleppmann_
- [Everything Will Flow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1bNOO3xxMc0) - by _Zach Tellman_
- [Practical Load Balancing with Consistent Hashing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jk6oiBJxcaA) - by _Andrew Rodland_

### Database Systems

- [PostgreSQL + ZFS: Best Practices and Standard Procedures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dwMQXLOXUco) - by _Sean Chittenden_

### Microservices

- [Globally scalable microservices with Container Engine & Cloud Load Balancing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kmPBm-TQBSE) - by _Sandip Dinesh_
- [Microservices at Netflix Scale: Principles, Tradeoffs & Lessons Learned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=57UK46qfBLY) - by _R. Meshenberg_

### Operating Systems

- [Early days of Unix and design of sh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FI_bZhV7wpI) - by _Stephen R. Bourne_

## Miscellaneous

### Fun to Watch

- [Best Practices for Software Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1cXquTPBpWo) - by _Chet Haase_
- [Computers are a sadness, I am the cure](https://vimeo.com/95066828) by _James Mickens_
- [Developer Stand up Comedy](http://media.ch9.ms/ch9/1ea0/ef05d6a9-86a1-43bd-af65-9ed200a41ea0/devdays054_high_ch9.mp4) - by _Scott Hanselman_
- [If you wish to learn ES6/2015 from scratch, you must first invent the universe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DN4yLZB1vUQ) - by _Ashley Williams_
- [It Was Never Going to Work, So Let’s Have Some Tea](https://vimeo.com/146524997) - by _James Mickens_
- [Life As A Developer: My Code Does Not Work Because I Am A Victim Of Complex Societal Factors That Are Beyond My Control](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Nj9ZjwOdFQ) - by _James Mickens_
- [Life is Terrible: Lets Talk About The Web](https://vimeo.com/111122950) - by _James Mickens_
- [Not Even Close: The State of Computer Security](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tF24WHumvIc) - by _James Mickens_
- [Perfectly Executing The Wrong Plan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9TJTbRw4ri8) - by _Tomer Sharon_
- [Programming is terrible—Lessons learned from a life wasted.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=csyL9EC0S0c)
- [Single Point of Failure: The (Fictional) Day Google Forgot To Check Passwords](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y4GB_NDU43Q) - by _Tom Scott_
- [The Birth & Death of Javascript](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/the-birth-and-death-of-javascript) - by _Gary Bernhardt_
- [The Worst Programming Language](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/worst-programming-language) by _Mark Rendle_
- [Virtual Machines, JavaScript and Assembler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UzyoT4DziQ4) - by _Scott Hanselman_
- [WAT](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/wat) - by _Gary Bernhardt_
- [What Is Open Source & Why Do I Feel So Guilty?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UIDb6VBO9os) - by _Jacob Thornton_
- [WTFJS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=et8xNAc2ic8) - by _Brian Leroux_

### IDEs and Editors

- [7 Habits For Effective Text Editing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6K4iIMlouI) - by _Bram Moolenaar_
- [How to Do 90% of What Plugins Do (With Just Vim)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XA2WjJbmmoM) - by _Max Cantor_
- [Learning Vim in a Week](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_NUO4JEtkDw) - by _Mike Coutermarsh_
- [Mastering the Vim Language](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wlR5gYd6um0) - by _Chris Toomey_
- [More Instantly Better Vim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHm36-na4-4) - by _Damian Conway_
- [Precision Editing at the Speed of Thought](https://vimeo.com/53144573) - by _Drew Neil_
- [vim + tmux](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5r6yzFEXajQ) - by _Nick Nisi_
- [Xi: an editor for the next 20 years](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4FbQre9VQLI) - by _Raph Levien_

### Version Control

- [Dissecting Git's Guts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2Msq90ZknI) - by _Emily Xie_
- [Git](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idLyobOhtO4) - by _Linus Torvalds_

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE)

Commit message:

add unix arch evolution history

README.md, after:

# Awesome Programming Presentations

> List of programming presentations everyone should watch.

<br>

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/techgaun/awesome-programming-presentations.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/techgaun/awesome-programming-presentations)

Don't know where to start? ➔ [Start here](#fun-to-watch).

If you need some inspiration, [start with this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oioj24KQRvM) or listen to [this song](https://soundcloud.com/smixx/smixx-developers-feat-steve).

## Table of Contents

- [General](#general)
- [Programming Languages](#programming-languages)
  - [Bash](#bash)
  - [CSS](#css)
  - [Elixir](#elixir)
  - [Erlang](#erlang)
  - [Go](#go)
  - [JavaScript](#javascript)
  - [PHP](#php)
  - [Python](#python)
  - [Ruby](#ruby)
  - [Scala](#scala)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Paradigms and Principles](#paradigms-and-principles)
  - [CQRS and Event Sourcing](#cqrs-and-event-sourcing)
  - [Functional Programming](#functional-programming)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Computer Security](#computer-security)
- [Cryptocurrency](#cryptocurrency)
- [Database Systems](#database-systems)
- [Distributed Systems](#distributed-systems)
- [Microservices](#microservices)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
  - [Fun to Watch](#fun-to-watch)
  - [IDEs and Editors](#ides-and-editors)
  - [Version Control](#version-control)
- [Contribute](#contribute)
- [License](#license)

## General

- [A Conversation with Linus Torvalds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Efi9wa4Fwds)
- [Evolutionary Software Architectures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CglSFhwbI3s) - by _Neal Ford_
- [Growing a Language](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ahvzDzKdB0) by _Guy Steele_
- [How to Get a Job at the Big 4 - Amazon, Facebook, Google & Microsoft](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJZCUhxNCv8) by _Sean Lee_
- [I want you to contribute to open source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hwdeUG_gySI) by _Max Stoiber_
- [It's Dangerous to Go Alone: Battling the Invisible Monsters in Tech](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1i8ylq4j_EY) - by _Julie Pagano_
- [Linux Kernel Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vyenmLqJQjs) - by _Greg Kroah-Hartman_
- [Overkill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GWEEPt8VvmU) - by _Katrina Owen_
- [System We Love](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TPe6UXMDMGM)
- [Systems programming as a swiss army knife](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HfD9IMZ9rKY) - by _Julia Evans_
- [The Future of Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecIWPzGEbFc) - by _Bob Martin_
- [The Future of Programming](https://vimeo.com/71278954) - by _Bret Victor_
- [The Motivation for a Monolithic Codebase](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W71BTkUbdqE) - by _Rachel Potvin_
- [The Myth of the Genius Programmer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0SARbwvhupQ) - by _Brian Fitzpatrick & Ben Collins-Sussman_
- [Thinking Above the Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4Yp3j_jk8Q) - by _Leslie Lamport_
- [You can be a kernel hacker!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0IQlpFWTFbM) - by _Julia Evans_

## Programming Languages

### Bash

- [Introduction to Advanced Bash Usage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uqHjc7hlqd0) - by _James Pannacciulli_
- [The Functional Tao of Bash](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yD2ekOEP9sU) - by _Garrett Smith_

### CSS

- [3.14 Things I Didn't Know About CSS - CSSconf EU 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WjP7TEKB7Uo)
- [CSS for Software Engineers for CSS Developers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wFn5nel3j6w) - by _Harry Roberts_
- [CSS Performance Tooling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FEs2jgZBaQA) - by _Addy Osmani_
- [Refactoring CSS Without Losing Your Mind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvTryZjGyg8) - by _Harry Roberts_
- [Your CSS is a Mess](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4z_9F6nfS8) - by _Jonathan Snook_
- [Your Very Own Component Library](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zSYo7m5kGHQ) - by _Alex Sexton_

### Elixir

- [Building Umbrella Project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6NTmUQClHrU) - by _Wojtek Mach_
- [Debugging Techniques in Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pj6zAgvVt5w) - by _Erich Kist_
- [Dialyzer: Optimistic Type Checking for Erlang and Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JT0ECYZ9FaQ) - by _Jason Voegele_
- [Discovering Processes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_b6RTes83c) - by _Saša Jurić_
- [Don't Write Macros But Do Learn How They Work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bo48sQDb-hk) - by _Jesse Anderson_
- [Elixir by the Bellyful](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iswld-Rpi_g) - by _Bryan Hunter_
- [Elixir in Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8MGNw045AE) - by _Jay Hayes_
- [Elixir Native UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=77FW-jrCyCs) - by _Boyd Multerer_
- [Elixir Power Tracing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBmNDI9OFJk) - by _Gabi Zuniga_
- [GenStage in the Kitchen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M78r_PDlw2c) - by _Claudio Ortolina_
- [High availability with Elixir and Erlang](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ba3aCm3A0o8) - by _Saša Jurić_
- [Let's Get Functional With Elixir!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVrnoxNbOts) - by _Nate Taylor_
- [Metaprogramming Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Bjzml_Hpvk) - by _Chris McCord_
- [OOP in Elixir - Lightning Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5EtV2JUU0Z4) - by _Wojtek Mach_
- [Phoenix - Productive. Reliable. Fast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STO-uN0xHDQ) - by _Chris McCord_
- [Phoenix 1.3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tMO28ar0lW8) - by _Chris McCord_
- [Phoenix after 100000 lines](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blGJ_p4plbc) - by _Renan Ranelli_
- [Processing 2.7M Images with Elixir (vs Ruby)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoNRtWl4fZU) - by _David Padilla_
- [Profiling and Tracing for all with Xprof](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AAXtjPiXbWE) - by _Péter Gömöri_
- [QuickCheck for Elixir - Generate Tests Automatically](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nbpZRm9gl50) - by _Thomas Arts_
- [Securing Elixir Applications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0DuAse9tK8) - by _Bram Verburg_ (Applies to Erlang as well in general)
- [Solid Ground](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5SbWapbXhKo) - by _Saša Jurić_
- [Taking Elixir to the Metal with Rust](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lSLTwWqTbKQ) - by _Sonny Scroggin_
- [The Joy of Connecting Elixir to the Physical World](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVy7gRU_-P8) - by _Frank Hunleth_
- [Thinking In Ecto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQxopjai0CU) - by _Darin Wilson_
- [Writing an Editor in Elixir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6lIVWVmuPao) - by _Ian Duggan_

### Erlang

- [26 years with Erlang or How I got my grey hairs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCwRGHj5jOE) - by _Joe Armstrong_
- [Erlang: Evolution](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=od6CfA8xEcM) - by _Robert Virding_
- [Erlang Performance Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncedupb-Rqw) - by _Michal Slaski_

### Go

- [7 common mistakes in Go and when to avoid them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29LLRKIL_TI) - by _Steve Francia_
- [Concurrency Is Not Parallelism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cN_DpYBzKso) - by _Rob Pike_
- [Crypto For Go Developers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2r_KMzXB74w) - by _George Tankersley_
- [Do not fear first class functions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5buaPyJ0XeQ) - by _Dave Cheney_
- [Go Proverbs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PAAkCSZUG1c) - by _Rob Pike_
- ["go test -race" Under the Hood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5erqWdlhQLA) - by _Kavya Joshi_
- [How to write your own Go tool](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oxc8B2fjDvY) - by _Fatih Arslan_
- [Inside the Map Implementation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tl7mi9QmLns) - by _Keith Randall_
- [Program your next server in Go](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5bYO60-qYOI) - by _Sameer Ajmani_
- [Self Deploying Go Applications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhmAyZNlECw) - by _Kelsey Hightower_
- [Simplicity is Complicated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rFejpH_tAHM) - by _Rob Pike_
- [Stupid Gopher Tricks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UECh7X07m6E) - by _Andrew Gerrand_
- [The Design of the Go Assembler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KINIAgRpkDA) - by _Rob Pike_
- [The Scandalous Story of the Dreadful Code Written by the Best of Us](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-wYLmsizBc0) - by _Katrina Owen_

### JavaScript

- [A Cartoon Intro to Fiber](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCuYPiUIONs) - by _Lin Clark_
- [A Cartoon Intro to WebAssembly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HktWin_LPf4) - by _Lin Clark_
- [Benchmarking Javascript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g0ek4vV7nEA) - by _Vyacheslav Egorov_
- [Hey Underscore, You're Doing It Wrong!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m3svKOdZijA) - by _Brian Lonsdorf_
- [How to Build a Compiler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tar4WgAfMr4) - by _James Kyle_
- [Immutable Data and React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I7IdS-PbEgI) - by _Lee Byron_
- [In The Loop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cCOL7MC4Pl0) - by _Jake Archibald_
- [Learning Functional Programming with JavaScript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-5obm1G_FY) by _Anjana Vakil_
- [Performance and benchmarking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=65-RbBwZQdU) - by _Vyacheslav Egorov_
- [Really. Javascript.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTWGoL1N-Kc) - by _Douglas Crockford_
- [RxJS + Redux + React = Amazing!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AslncyG8whg) - by _Jay Phelps_
- [The myth of the "Real JavaScript Developer"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xt5qpbiqw2g) - by _Brenna O'Brien_
- [V8, modern JavaScript, and beyond](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N1swY14jiKc) - by _Seth Thompson_
- [What the heck is the event loop anyway?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ) - by _Philip Roberts_

### PHP

- [PHP in 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYTKm2oUzAg) - by _Rasmus Lerdorf_

### Python

- [10 Tips for Pythonic Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_O23jIXsshs) - by _Michael Kennedy_
- [A tale of concurrency through creativity in Python: a deep dive into how gevent works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GunMToxbE0E) - by _Kavya Joshi_
- [Beyond PEP 8 - Best practices for beautiful intelligible code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf-BqAjZb8M) - by _Raymond Hettinger_
- [Builtin Superheroes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6VSAsKAj98) - by _David Beazley_
- [Crypto 101](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rmCGsCYJF8) - by _Laurens Van Houtven_
- [Decorators: A Powerful Weapon in your Python Arsenal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9oyr0mocZTg) - by _Colton Myers_
- [Fear and Awaiting in Async: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the Coroutine Dream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E-1Y4kSsAFc) - by _David Beazley_
- [Learn Python Through Public Data Hacking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RrPZza_vZ3w) - by _David Beazley_
- [Modern Dictionaries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p33CVV29OG8) - by _Raymond Hettinger_
- [Modules and Packages: Live and Let Die!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oTh1CXRaQ0) - by _David Beazley_
- [Python asyncio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZzfHjytDceU) - by _David Beazley_
- [Python Concurrency From the Ground Up](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCs5OvhV9S4) - by _David Beazley_
- [Statistics for Hackers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iq9DzN6mvYA) - by _Jake Vanderplas_
- [Transforming Code into Beautiful, Idiomatic Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSGv2VnC0go) - by _Raymond Hettinger_
- [Type Hints](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2wDvzy6Hgxg) - by _Guido van Rossum_
- [Understanding the Python GIL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Obt-vMVdM8s) - by _David Beazley_

### Ruby

- [Let's build a blockchain! — A mini-cryptocurrency in Ruby](https://youtu.be/3aJI1ABdjQk?t=1043) - by _Haseeb Qureshi_
- [Nothing is Something - RailsConf 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMPfEXIlTVE) by _Sandi Metz_

### Scala

- [Striving to Make Things Simple and Fast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K2NYwP90bNs) - by _Phil Bagwell_

### Artificial Intelligence

- [Large-Scale Deep Learning with TensorFlow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzoe2G5g-w4) - by _Jeff Dean_
- [Self-Driving Lessons from Comma AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxuU5L2MEII) - by _George Hotz_
- [TensorFlow and Deep Learning without a PhD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4alGiomYP4) - by _Martin Gorner_
- [TensorFlow and Deep Learning without a PhD, Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fTUwdXUFfI8) - by _Martin Gorner_

## Paradigms and Principles

### CQRS and Event Sourcing

- [CQRS and Event Sourcing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHGkaShoyNs) - by _Greg Young_

### Functional Programming

- [Controlling Time and Space: understanding the many formulations of FRP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Agu6jipKfYw) - by _Evan Czaplicki_
- [Functional Programming Patterns for Mere Mortals](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9QGWbGppis) - by _Daniel Chambers_
- [Railway Oriented Programming - error handling in functional languages](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8I19uA-wGY) - by _Scott Wlaschin_

## Cloud Computing

- [12-Factor Apps and the Hashistack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nosa5-xcATw) - by _Kelsey Hightower_
- [Achieving Rapid Response Times in Large Online Services](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-3Ahy7Fxsc) - by _Jeff Dean_
- [A Day in the Life of a Netflix Engineer - AWS re:Invent 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mL3zT1iIKw) - by _Dave Hahn_
- [Build user trust: running containers securely with Google Container Engine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cd4JU7qzYbE) - by _Alex Mohr_ and _Jessie Frazelle_
- [Building Software Systems At Google and Lessons Learned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=modXC5IWTJI) - by _Jeff Dean_
- [Cluster Management at Google with Borg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0W49z8hVn0k) - by _John Wilkes_
- [Container management and deployment: from development to production](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XL9CQobFB8I) - by _Kelsey Hightower_
- [Infrastructure as Code Might Literally Be Impossible](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLh_6Ievi7A) - by _Joe Damato_
- [Infrastructure as Code Might Literally Be Impossible Part Two](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nPGdN_OuU9U) - by _Joe Damato_
- [Scaling at GitHub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f7ecUqHxD7o) - by _Patrick Reynolds_
- [Scaling Redis at Twitter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rP9EKvWt0zo) - by _Yao Yu_
- [Scaling Up to Your First 10 Million Users](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vg5onp8TU6Q) - by _Joel Williams_

## Computer Security

- [Pwned By the owner What happens when you steal a hackers computer - Defcon 18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4oB28ksiIo)

## Cryptocurrency

- [Ethereum in 25 Minutes, Version MMXVII](https://youtu.be/mCzyDLanA7s) - by _Vitalik Buterina_

## Distributed Systems

- [Applying the Saga Pattern](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xDuwrtwYHu8) - by _Caitie McCaffrey_
- [Conflict Resolution for Eventual Consistency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yCcWpzY8dIA) - by _Martin Kleppmann_
- [Everything Will Flow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1bNOO3xxMc0) - by _Zach Tellman_
- [Practical Load Balancing with Consistent Hashing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jk6oiBJxcaA) - by _Andrew Rodland_

## Database Systems

- [PostgreSQL + ZFS: Best Practices and Standard Procedures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dwMQXLOXUco) - by _Sean Chittenden_

## Microservices

- [Globally scalable microservices with Container Engine & Cloud Load Balancing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kmPBm-TQBSE) - by _Sandip Dinesh_
- [Microservices at Netflix Scale: Principles, Tradeoffs & Lessons Learned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=57UK46qfBLY) - by _R. Meshenberg_

## Operating Systems

### Unix
- [Early days of Unix and design of sh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FI_bZhV7wpI) - by _Stephen R. Bourne_
- [Unix Architecture Evolution from the 1970 PDP-7 to the 2018 FreeBSD Important Milestones and Lesson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FbDebSinSQo) - by _Diomidis Spinellis_

## Miscellaneous

### Fun to Watch

- [Best Practices for Software Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1cXquTPBpWo) - by _Chet Haase_
- [Computers are a sadness, I am the cure](https://vimeo.com/95066828) by _James Mickens_
- [Developer Stand up Comedy](http://media.ch9.ms/ch9/1ea0/ef05d6a9-86a1-43bd-af65-9ed200a41ea0/devdays054_high_ch9.mp4) - by _Scott Hanselman_
- [If you wish to learn ES6/2015 from scratch, you must first invent the universe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DN4yLZB1vUQ) - by _Ashley Williams_
- [It Was Never Going to Work, So Let’s Have Some Tea](https://vimeo.com/146524997) - by _James Mickens_
- [Life As A Developer: My Code Does Not Work Because I Am A Victim Of Complex Societal Factors That Are Beyond My Control](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Nj9ZjwOdFQ) - by _James Mickens_
- [Life is Terrible: Lets Talk About The Web](https://vimeo.com/111122950) - by _James Mickens_
- [Not Even Close: The State of Computer Security](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tF24WHumvIc) - by _James Mickens_
- [Perfectly Executing The Wrong Plan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9TJTbRw4ri8) - by _Tomer Sharon_
- [Programming is terrible—Lessons learned from a life wasted.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=csyL9EC0S0c)
- [Single Point of Failure: The (Fictional) Day Google Forgot To Check Passwords](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y4GB_NDU43Q) - by _Tom Scott_
- [The Birth & Death of Javascript](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/the-birth-and-death-of-javascript) - by _Gary Bernhardt_
- [The Worst Programming Language](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/worst-programming-language) by _Mark Rendle_
- [Virtual Machines, JavaScript and Assembler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UzyoT4DziQ4) - by _Scott Hanselman_
- [WAT](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/wat) - by _Gary Bernhardt_
- [What Is Open Source & Why Do I Feel So Guilty?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UIDb6VBO9os) - by _Jacob Thornton_
- [WTFJS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=et8xNAc2ic8) - by _Brian Leroux_

### IDEs and Editors

- [7 Habits For Effective Text Editing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6K4iIMlouI) - by _Bram Moolenaar_
- [How to Do 90% of What Plugins Do (With Just Vim)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XA2WjJbmmoM) - by _Max Cantor_
- [Learning Vim in a Week](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_NUO4JEtkDw) - by _Mike Coutermarsh_
- [Mastering the Vim Language](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wlR5gYd6um0) - by _Chris Toomey_
- [More Instantly Better Vim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHm36-na4-4) - by _Damian Conway_
- [Precision Editing at the Speed of Thought](https://vimeo.com/53144573) - by _Drew Neil_
- [vim + tmux](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5r6yzFEXajQ) - by _Nick Nisi_
- [Xi: an editor for the next 20 years](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4FbQre9VQLI) - by _Raph Levien_

### Version Control

- [Dissecting Git's Guts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2Msq90ZknI) - by _Emily Xie_
- [Git](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idLyobOhtO4) - by _Linus Torvalds_

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE)
